Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
1
Task 1: Database construction— 
Experimental papers with pre-registration
Task description: Compile the database of experimental papers with pre-registration and pre-analysis 
plans
Assistant: 
Status: v1 instructions ready
Background
Motivation
The credibility of published scientific findings has become the forefront of empirical research in social 
sciences in recent years, leading to a significant emphasis on the principles of “Open Science.” This 
movement seeks to enhance the transparency and reproducibility of scientific research through 
various reforms. Among these, pre-registration and pre-analysis plans (see “Introduction to pre-
registration and pre-analysis plans” below) have gained considerable traction, as they are (believed to 
be) pivotal in fostering transparent research practices. 
We aim to understand the adoption of pre-registration and pre-analysis plans within the domain of 
experimental economics. This will be achieved by systematically investigating articles published in 19 
top-tier economics journals spanning the years 2017 to 2023.
The objective is to compile a database of published papers containing experimental data that are 
accompanied by pre-registration and pre-analysis plans.
What we have done so far
As the first step, we have downloaded all the PDF files of articles published in 19 leading economics 
journals (listed below) from 2017 to 2023. 
Background
Motivation
What we have done so far
Materials
Task
1. Check if the paper uses data (observational or experimental)
2. Check if the paper contains pre-registration and/or detailed pre-analysis plans
3. Extract pre-registration / pre-analysis plans information
4. Download pre-registration / pre-analysis plans (if they exist)
5. Code the type of empirical/experimental data
6. Housekeeping
Procedure
Introduction to pre-registration and pre-analysis plans
“Replication crisis”
What is (pre-)registration?
What is (pre-)analysis plan?
Examples of pre-registration and pre-analysis plans

Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
2
📚American Economic Journal: Applied Economics, American Economic Journal: Economic 
Policy, American Economic Journal: Microeconomics, American Economic Review, American 
Economic Review: Insights, Econometrica, Economic Journal, Experimental Economics, 
Games and Economic Behavior, Journal of Development Economics, Journal of Economic 
Behavior & Organization, Journal of the Economic Science Association, Journal of the 
European Economic Association, Journal of Political Economy, Journal of Public Economics, 
Management Science, Quarterly Journal of Economics, Review of Economic Studies, Review 
of Economics and Statistics
Subsequently, we conducted a comprehensive full-text keyword search to identify articles potentially 
containing pre-registrations and/or detailed pre-analysis plans. Additionally, we employed keywords 
such as "experiment," "laboratory," "RCT," etc., to gauge the prevalence of experimental studies within 
the articles under examination.
💬Keywords related to pre-registration and pre-analysis plans:
analysis plan , pre-analysis plan , PAP , preregist , pre-regist , register , registration
Keywords related to pre-registration platforms:
AEA RCT , AEARCT , socialscienceregistry , Open Science Framework , OSF , AsPredicted , EGAP , RIDIE , 
clinicaltrials  
Keywords related to experiments:
experiment , laboratory , field , laboratory experiment , field experiment , online experiment , 
intervention , randomized trial , randomized control trial , RCT  
We now have a set of research articles that are likely to
have experiments conducted in the laboratory, in the field, or online (including randomized trials), 
and
have pre-registration and/or detailed pre-analysis plans.
Of course, keyword searches may occasionally flag papers that do not actually have any pre-
registration or pre-analysis plans. For instance, a paper theoretically studying the concept of pre-
registration, without any empirical or experimental data, could trigger a “YES” result in our search 
process. Likewise, there is a possibility that we might overlook papers containing pre-registration or 
pre-analysis plans if the authors describe pre-registration in an unconventional manner in the paper.
Correcting the second type of error is not straightforward. To address the first challenge, we intend to 
mitigate it by manually examining papers identified through our keyword search.
Materials
Folders containing papers identified by the search
1. hit_pap : all hits— including keywords related to experiment AND pre-registration
2. hit_pap_aearct : subset of 1, including keywords related to AEA RCT Registry
3. hit_pap_aspredicted : subset of 1, including keywords related to AsPredicted
4. hit_pap_osf : subset of 1, including keywords related to Open Science Framework
→ Each of them has subfolders by journal, volume, issue

Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
3
Spreadsheet for coding
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dYL5D3Rs_vzm9GYu6CLE_rpVa2r6wDVcDBkS69UzKYs/edit?
usp=sharing
Task
The task consists of 6 main steps
1. Check if the paper uses data (observational or experimental)
2. Check if the paper contains pre-registration and/or detailed pre-analysis plans
3. Extract pre-registration / pre-analysis plan information
4. Download pre-registration / pre-analysis plans (if they exist)
5. Code the type of experimental data
6. Housekeeping
1. Check if the paper uses data (observational or experimental)
Check for the presence of observational or experimental data in the paper.
The title of the paper may be indicative
Read the abstract
Skim through the paper— are there any figures or (regression) tables?
If none is found (such as in theoretical studies or review articles), code no_data=1 , skip the rest of the 
steps, and proceed to the next paper.
2. Check if the paper contains pre-registration and/or detailed pre-analysis plans
Search for indications of pre-registration or pre-analysis plans using keyword search. Utilize the 
keywords identified during the full-text search. Confirmation of pre-registration or pre-analysis is 
attained if authors explicitly declare, for instance, “we pre-registered this study …,” or provide a link or 
ID to pre-registration (e.g., “AEARCTR-0002106” or “AsPredicted #25308”).
If YES, code prereg=1  and proceed to the next step.
If NO, code prereg=0  and proceed to the next paper.
Tips
Columns key_10  - key_19  are about pre-registration platforms. If some of these columns have non-
zero numbers, you can search these keywords.
Links to the pre-registration/pre-analysis plans documents are often mentioned in the footnote of 
the first page of the paper
Example → “The experiments were pre-registered in the AsPredicted registry (#74868; 
#107190; #137055)”
… but not always— sometimes the paper mentions this in the middle, for example, after the 
experimental design is explained.
Example → “We preregistered the experimental design and the hypotheses on AsPredicted.org 
(see Supplementary Information B.6).” on p. 13

Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
4
3. Extract pre-registration / pre-analysis plans information
Code 1  in the column (all that apply) that corresponds to the registry used by the authors (and 0  
otherwise; multiple 1 ’s can happen).
use_aearct  if the authors used AEA RCT Registry
use_osf  if the authors used Open Science Framework
use_aspredicted  if the authors used AsPredicted
use_other  if the authors used other platforms (including ClinicalTrials)
Copy the link to the column link_prereg . 
If there is more than one pre-registration, add all links in one cell, by separating with “; “ (e.g. 
“ link_1; link_2; link_3 ”).
4. Download pre-registration / pre-analysis plans (if they exist)
If the pre-registration/pre-analysis plans document is available (as a PDF/Word/txt file), download it.
Save the file in the same folder as the paper you are looking at.
If the paper’s file name is abcde.pdf , save the pre-registration document as prereg_abcde.pdf . If 
multiple files exist, add IDs such as prereg_1_abcde.pdf , prereg_2_abcde.pdf,  …
On the AEA RCT Registry, some authors upload documents under the section “Analysis Plan”. If the 
paper has a pre-registration on the AEA RCT Registry ( use_aearct=1 ), check the following:
if you find a publicly available document, code aearct_pap=1
If the document is not publicly available, code aearct_pap=2
If the section is empty, code aearct_pap=0

Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
5
5. Code the type of empirical/experimental data
Code =1  in all relevant columns
type_lab : Laboratory experiment
type_field : Field experiment (including RCTs)
type_online : Online experiment (e.g. Amazon Mechanical Turk, Prolific)
type_survey : Unincentivized survey (no experimental component)
type_obs : Observational data (using already existing data like census or labor stat, no experimental 
component)
type_repl : Replication of other studies
type_other : None of the above → write the type here
6. Housekeeping
flag : Express the degree of “uncertainty” you experience while coding this paper
=0  if there is nothing to discuss about this paper
=1 , 2 , …, 9 , 10  if you want to discuss something about this paper (capturing the lack of 
“confidence” in your coding— larger number → more unclear/ambiguous)
comment : Add any comments you have about the paper
Procedure
1. As a test run, we can start with 5-10 papers (from 2-3 different journals) that contain the keyword 
aspredicted , which indicates that the paper likely has a pre-registration on the AsPredicted platform
Uncheck 0  in the filter for column key_16  → there are 61 papers
Folder hit_pap_aspredicted  contains these 61 papers
Try steps 1-6 above
2. Then, try another 5-10 papers (from 2-3 different journals) that contain the keyword related to AEA RCT 
Registry
Reset the filter for column key_16 , and uncheck 0  in columns key_10  AND key_11  → there are 215 
papers
Folder hit_pap_aearct  contains these papers (plus other papers; filter used there was “ key_10=1  OR 
key_11=1  OR key_12=1 ")
3. Discuss the findings and resolve uncertainty in the instructions
Introduction to pre-registration and pre-analysis plans
“Replication crisis”

Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
6
Over the past decade, we have observed many cases in which results from well-known experiments were 
not replicated by other researchers. This is often called the “replication crisis,” and has been documented 
in many fields in social sciences. There are many reasons why some findings fail to replicate. We introduce 
the following important concepts for our discussion.
“Publication bias” → The scientific journal publishing system is in favor of “positive” or “statistically 
significant (usually 
﻿)” findings, leaving “null results” (which fail to reject the hypothesis) 
underreported.
“P-hacking” → Scientists need to publish papers to get a job or promotion. They understand the current 
system of scientific publishing, which has the problem of publication bias just described above. What 
do they do, in response? They may try to obtain “statistically significant (p < 0.05)” results, either 
consciously or unconsciously. There are several ways to achieve this. 
“HARKing” (Hypothesizing After the Result is Known) → A researcher tried to test hypothesis X, but 
after collecting data and analyzing it, he realized that he could not reject hypothesis X. He then tried 
another hypothesis Y, and it “worked”. He writes the paper as if he had hypothesis Y in his mind from 
the beginning, and never mentions hypothesis X. 
“Specification search” → This is one form of p-hacking. A researcher ran a regression analysis, but he 
did not get a statistically significant effect. He then tried many other specifications by including 
additional variables or excluding some observations from the regression until he got a significant result. 
He reports only the model that “worked,” never mentioning the million other models he tried. 
“Optional stopping” → A researcher conducted an experiment with 100 participants. He could not find a 
significant result, so he decided to collect 20 more participants. Still no effect. He got 20 more 
observations and got 
﻿! He stopped data collection. 
P-hacking, HARKing, specification search, and optional stopping are all part of the so-called 
“Questionable Research Practice (QRP)”.
What is (pre-)registration?
If you think about QRPs (such as p-hacking, HARKing, and specification search), you may notice that the 
core of this problem is that: “researchers can change their hypothesis, regression model, or even sample 
size of the experiment, after seeing some part of the data”. 
Registration of a study is the idea that researchers “publicly declare” the hypothesis they are going to test, 
the statistical tests they are going to implement, and the number of observations they are going to collect. 
It must be “public” (otherwise, there is no point!), so there are central registries for study registration. 
Examples: 
AEA RCT Registry
Open Science Framework (OSF)
AsPredicted
Researchers are strongly encouraged to register “before” the data collection starts. That is why we 
often call it “pre-”registration. 
Have a look at AEA RCT Registry to get an idea!
What is (pre-)analysis plan?
In addition to pre-registration, researchers can also write an analysis plan that describes the experimental 
protocol and data analysis in more detail. Researchers can upload an analysis plan along with their study 
registration.
See also:
p < 0.05
p < 0.05

Task 1: Database construction— Experimental papers with pre-registration
7
OSF
https://osf.io/gqywv
10 Things to Know About Pre-Analysis Plans
https://egap.org/resource/10-things-to-know-about-pre-analysis-plans/
Examples of pre-registration and pre-analysis plans
https://www.socialscienceregistry.org/trials/3060
This pre-registration has pre-analysis plans. See “Analysis Plan” section.
https://www.socialscienceregistry.org/trials/4493
This pre-registration does not have a pre-analysis plan. 
https://aspredicted.org/blind.php?x=x954rp
This is an example of pre-registration on the AsPredicted platform
https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/WSXD9
This is an example of pre-registration on OSF
